---
templateKey: 'blog-post'
title: 'Scottish Fibre Flax Seed Bank'
date: 2023-10-09T12:00:00.000Z
featuredpost: false
featuredimage: ./img/flax_flowers.jpg
description: >-
  Fibreshed Scotland has received a Fibreshed Micro-Grant to start developing a flax seed bank for Scotland.
tags:
  - seedbank
---
Fibreshed Scotland is excited to announce we have been awarded a Fibreshed Micro-Grant award for the development of a Scottish Fibre Flax Seed Bank. The funding will be used to start working towards fibre flax seed sovereignty in Scotland by developing a strategic plan, educational resources and promotional events for establishing a Scottish Fibre Flax Seed Bank. The long term vision is for Fibreshed Scotland to coordinate and manage a flax seed bank that could supply the needs of all Fibreshed Scotland growers. These seeds will have been bred to be well adjusted to the Scottish soil and climate. Developing such a seed bank is an ambitious multi-year project that requires planning and input from a diverse group of stakeholders and advisors. The micro-grant funding will be used to identify these stakeholders and advisors, bring them together and formulate a plan for the development of the seed bank.

We hope that a Scottish Fibre Flax Seed Bank will empower more people to become flax growers, will raise the quality of the flax fibre produced and is an important part of restoring a Scottish flax economy in a climate beneficial way. Also, once a blueprint has been established for the creation of a seed bank, the general approach and methodology can be applied to other fibre plants, for instance seeds for natural dye plants.

Colleen McCulloch will be the primary organizer and the project will dovetail nicely with the [Innovative Farmers Field Lab](https://innovativefarmers.org/field-labs/growing-flax-for-regenerative-textiles/) she is currently coordinating. If you are interested or would like to be involved, do get in touch!
